# Machine-Learning-based-Product-Demand-Analysis-with-Purchase-Prediction-for-Black-Friday-Sales-

Machine Learning based Product Demand Analysis with Purchase Prediction for Black Friday Sales is carried out using Python as a programming language.

Every year in November, there is a sale which is known as Black Friday Sales. It is another name for the Thanksgiving Day sale in the United States. During this day of the sales, the busiest day for shopping is recorded. The dataset which is collected from this Black Friday Sales is based on a few years of observations and pattern. It is crucial to analyse this dataset as it will help us to find various areas where the sales can be improved. After the analysis of the dataset, multiple outcomes and findings were observed that affected the sales.

In this Project, different types of methods and techniques are used, which provides us with the insight of the data. The dataset was analysed in order to deliver the findings and display the traits that affected the sales. An additional column is introduced in the existing dataset to improve the feature importance. This new column predicted the demand for particular products from the available data. The demand is classified in a different category for better understanding the importance of a specific product in the sales. Furthermore, different machine learning algorithms were implemented to check the accuracy of the data, namely, Linear Regression – It is a used to predict the outcome on the basis of the variables and values that are introduced. Random Forest – It is a learning method that classifies the training and testing data into trees and helps to conduct a decision based on it. Gradient Boosting – It helps to boost the models and predicts the decision trees based on weak models. By using these algorithms, different accuracies were obtained from the data. Random Forest algorithm gives the best accuracy of 70% among the three algorithms.
